Good morning Myles,

Thanks for your time this morning and flexibility to take on this quick project supporting Ben and Josh.

Keep the length between 600-800 words.

My suggested for the document format would be:

Title
Word count
Notes for Ben and Josh
Body of op-ed
Cutting room floor (for those pieces of text that didn't work out and were cut, but might still have some later value)

Here's Josh's desired outline for the article. I'd advise you to stick pretty close to trying to incorporate each piece, and specifically flag if you have to drop anything due to length.
Big picture points
- CA is spending many billions (ask RAs to get latest numbers) at state level on spending, and billions more at the local level (similarly). What does this work out to per homeless person?
- State has failed to collect info on costs and outcomes of homelessness programs, see Lee's piece here here; three audits 
- This money is not incentivized to reduce homelessness. It seems incentivized to increase homelessness: use some examples
- It's not about housing. see Figure 3 here (possible to update?). As new supportive housing got built, the number of homeless just rose. Permanent supportive housing is the wrong goal, and is super expensive. "Housing First" was wrong. "Harm Reduction" was wrong
- It's mostly mental health and drug abuse. Find latest statistics. Ohanian piece says 75%

What is California doing?
- Have major cities implemented anti-camping ordinances?
- How is Newsom's Care Court program going? In theory this combined with enforcing laws is the right idea. Enforce the law on crimes (attached by project Tim Rosemberger goes over some of the legal stuff), and when you enforce the law on crimes, sentence people to drug-treatment-focused facilities. In practice it's faced issues (are these fixable), and here are some of the reasons.
- Tie to current budget by referring to California's cancellation of a major grant program, the HHAP, a recognition it isn't working. 

Bottom line - Cuts to the programs that are incentivizing homelessness (HHAP and more) should be used to pay for more law enforcement, courts, and drug-treatment, including pathways to mandatory drug treatment for those who are convicted and put into Care Court or similar systems. Fix the problems with the Care Courts identified here.

Emphasize that this is actual compassion, as opposed to just letting people live in self-determined drugged out squalor on the streets.

*

For useful context, here is another recent op-ed that an RA wrote with Josh on this topic, so that you have an idea of tone and approach:
https://www.ocregister.com/2024/05/09/crucial-not-cruel-and-unusual-the-supreme-court-weighs-homelessness-regulations/

Also see attached for the foundational research by Josh.

If you have any questions, please feel free to ask them. The goal is for you to have a (rough) draft to Ben before COB today.

Thanks!
Michael