Josh Outline:

CA spending billions at state and local level.
State has failed to collect info on cost
Incentivizes homelessness
Housing first is wrong
Mental health and drug abuse is key

anti camping?
Care court program working? good theory. Just need to enforce the laws. Bad in practice for some key reasons.
Cali cancelled major gran prohram HHAP and is a sign that it sint working

bottom line
cut bad programs (HHAP) to pay for law enforcement courts drug treatment and mandatory drug treatment. Fix problems with actual care courts. 

This what real compassion looks like.


Phase I

Josh Foundational research:

Intro:
- About half of the unsheltered homeless are in CA.
- Amounted to 113k people in 2020
- It has frown sicne 2010 to 2020 (57%). Decreased nationally.


-Cali built a lot of housing.(150%)
- State auditor 9.4 billion for homelessness

-Josh wants to reduce it and be humane and cost effective
- transparency and ccountability.
- "A major impediment to funding and spending transparency is California’s lack of an entity that oversees the state’s homelessness response. "

Housing first:
" Housing first stands in contrast to a 
housing readiness” or “treatment first” model that would condition housing placement 
on another behavior or activity like sobriety or participation in treatment" Homeless are able to choose what services (mental and substance) they use and it does not impact housing.

Leading cause of death was drug overdose and acute drug toxicity.
"The Los Angeles Times examined 2019 point-in-time 
count surveys in the county to find that 76 percent of people experiencing unsheltered 
homelessness reported being, or were observed to be, affected by mental illness, 
substance abuse, or physical illnesses.21"
" A study on single-room occupancy hotels from the San Francisco Chronicle
found that a quarter of the 515 PSH participants tracked by the city exited the program by 
dying and more than a fifth returned to homelessness.2"

Incentives work:
Basically make people not take dugs in exchange for stuff...
"or example, one study found that crack cocaine 
users failed to attain and retain stable housing over a two-year period 82 percent of the 
time. Conversely, abstinence from cocaine use in the first follow-up year was associated 
with housing stability in the next two follow-up years."

"One strategy that has had success in treating substance abuse is contingency management (CM). 
Under a CM framework, small financial incentives are given to a person contingent on 
abstinence from substance abuse. In a review of the literature on CM from 2009 to 2014, 
researchers found that 86 percent of CM studies reported significant treatment effects.31
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
Drug Deaths
2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
US Average
California
Figure 4. California Drug Deaths vs. Average US state, per 100,000 Population
Source: CDC
10
Jillian Ludwig and Joshua Rauh • Homelessness in California
Evidence shows that CM has been particularly effective in treating stimulant use disorders, 
for which no pharmacotherapy exists, but it has also shown promising results in increasing 
adherence to treatment for opiate-dependency and even smoking cessation.32"

Law Enforcemtn
